# HOSTEL 4(EAGLE'S NEST)


Warden      : Mr. Diganta Kalita  
Contact No. : 7002544671  
Estd        : 1962  
Capacity    : 72  

---

## STAFFS

1. Hemen Bora
2. Umesh Baishya
3. Amar Das
4. Narayan Deori
5. Ajit Horizon (Sweeper)
6. Shiva Bora (Contractual)
7. Palash Dutta (Contractual)
8. Monjit Bora (Contractual)

---
> *15th August, 1962 was the golden time when Hostel #4 laid its foundation and since then it never stopped in delivering the finest batches of young engineers who've flown in and around the world with flying colours. Popularly came to be known as "Eagle's Nest" and the hostelites take pride in calling themselves as "Eaglets" and everyone certainly knows why! When talking about the infrastructure of the Eagle's Nest, it has all the amenities that makes it nothing less than a home. Like 24 hours running water, a full-fledged library along with a reading room in it, gym facilities, modernised well equipped bathrooms, its own playground and the best of hostel buddies to gel with just like a big family. We Eaglets have always mastered in the cultural field of JEC and not only culturally but in sports too, they have engraved a mark. The magazine of Eagle's Nest, "Jangam", which is one of the most awaited magazines of JEC has given so much importance to artistic themes too and this is what sets them apart from the rest. A smooth combination of academics and creativity is what the Eaglets have been producing over the years. Also, not to forget, the motto of Eagle's Nest is "VENI VIDI VICI" - We came, We saw, We Conquered!!*
