# HOSTEL 8(OCTAVE)

Warden : Mr. Mofidur Rahman  
Contact No. : 9101091317  
Estd : 1984  
Capacity : 75

---

## STAFFS

1. Mairam Kalita
2. Hira Bora
3. Kiron Bora
4. Suren Bora
5. Diganta Dutta
6. Jatin Kalita
7. Gobin Kalita
8. Apurba Bora
9. Biki Bora
10. Jagadish Balmiki (Sweeper)

## PRESENT MONITORS

1. Kamal Luchan Bora:9577605931
2. Jamal Ali:8822639502
3. Ice Sarkar:9101434079

---

### About us.

> Established in 1984 and hence the youngest among all the boys hostels, we have produced some of the most well established individuals in Assam as well as in India and abroad. We nurture a sense of brotherhood among us that transcends the walls of this hostel; brothers for life, as we all say, once an Octavian always an Octavian. College life is one of the most pivotal part of our lives, full of learning, failing and succeeding; we try to mold our boarders into individuals who can survive in this fast changing world. One must learn to be resourceful as well as be able to manage situations in order to grow in today's world and what better place to learn all this than in Octave, the best boys hostel in Jorhat Engineering College.

### Location.

> Located in the Southeastern part of this sprawling college campus, far away from all the noise of a town, nature is just outside the door. With a forest on one side, decent playground behind and a garden upfront, the environment is just right to nestle an individual. One can feel a sense of calm and peace breathing in the air around here; an ecstacy one can hardly let go off.

### Brief History.

> In the cusp of spring 1983, 23rd February, the advent of this hostel came into fruitition. Dr. Atul Bordoloi, Department of Physics(retd .) and Dr. Kulanath Sarmah,Department of Chemistry, were the first boarders as well as assigned Superintendents of this hostel. As the hostel was in need of incumbents, boarders from hostel 1 to 5were shuffled and they made new nesting in this youngest hostel of the college in the erstwhile dumping ground of the college and the adjoining villages. But it was notuntil November 1984 that the hostel got its existing name, Octave, with its boarders having straddled diverse frontiers of the length and breadth of the planet. Anjan Das,an Octavian from the 1984-88 batch bears this privilege for posterity to have named this place as such. The hostel has been under the supervision of several Superintendents, namely the aforementioned firsts, Dr. Manabendra Bhuyan, Dr Prasanna Khaund, Dr Parimal Bakul Barua for a lengthy tenure of 17 years, Dr. Dilip Kakati and the current superintendent Mr. Bijoy Roy. The rear side of Octave has now been demarcated by the boundaries of Assam Women's University, hereby curbing the boarders of their hitherto favourite place for nighttime pursuits in the southern side. For many years, this hostel had singular water supply arranged and aided by the Octave batch of 1995-99 which was a boon for its boarders in comparison to the acute water shortage faced by the Joencovites and hence mitigating the August water borne epidemics. The hostel celebrated its Silver Jubliee on 27th and 28th April, 2011 with pomp and grandeur. That coming together of 27 passout batches along with its then-existing boarders was a festive and emotional highpoint of joy and nostalgia. The moments of joy in the faces of the families of 4 departed Octavian brothers brought unforseen cherished sanctity of a brotherhood beyond compare. Long Live Octave, long live the spirit of Octavians. -- Hrishikesh Mali, former boarder of Octave.

### Student Life.

> From the seniormost to the freshers, all the batches live together in harmony, learning and growing as one is made to understand the traditions of our hostel. There are a ton of tournaments and competitions all year long in which all the batches participate as a team bringing laurels to our hostel. We come here as strangers, but leave as brothers; brothers for life. That's the beauty of our hostel.

### Facilities.

> Built in the form of H, our hostel boasts 32 rooms, 1 common room, 1 gym-cum-library room, 1 mess and 4 washrooms. The common room is the pride of the hostel, as it serves as the hosting venue for various celebrations like freshers, farewell, distinguished guests. It is christened with all the trophies, medals and commendations that our hostel has garnered over the years. Apart from all this, it also serves as a place of rejuvenation. One can relax, have a chat, watch some tv and even engage in some carrom with each other. We believe an individual must excel not only in academics, but also in other activities, as such we have indoor games like Table Tennis, Carrom, Chess etc. and outdoor games as well like Badminton, Cricket, Football, Volleyball to name a few.

### Achievements and Hostel Activities.

> Hostel-08 has numerous achievements which can be viewed in the Official Hostel Website [CLICK HERE](https://octave-jec.vercel.appL)\*
